1. Cancer Treat Rev. 2019 Jul;77:35-43. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2019.06.001. Epub
2019  Jun 12.

Novel TCR-based biologics: mobilising T cells to warm 'cold' tumours.

Lowe KL(1), Cole D(1), Kenefeck R(1), OKelly I(1), Lepore M(1), Jakobsen BK(2).

Author information:
(1)Immunocore Ltd, Abingdon, Oxford, United Kingdom.
(2)Immunocore Ltd, Abingdon, Oxford, United Kingdom. Electronic address: 
bent.jakobsen@immunocore.com.

Immunotherapeutic strategies have revolutionised cancer therapy in recent years, 
bringing meaningful improvements in outcomes for patients with previously 
intractable conditions. These successes have, however, been largely limited to 
certain types of liquid tumours and a small subset of solid tumours that are 
known to be particularly immunogenic. Broadening these advances across the 
majority of tumour indications, which are characterised by an immune-excluded, 
immune-deserted or immune-suppressed ('cold') phenotype, will require 
alternative approaches that are able to specifically address this unique 
biological environment. Several newer therapeutic modalities, including adoptive 
cell therapy and T cell redirecting bispecific molecules, are considered to hold 
particular promise and are being investigated in early phase clinical trials 
across various solid tumour indications. ImmTAC molecules are a novel class of T 
cell redirecting bispecific biologics that exploit TCR-based targeting of tumour 
cells; providing potent and highly specific access to the vast landscape of 
intracellular targets. The first of these reagents to reach the clinic, 
tebentafusp (IMCgp100), has generated demonstrable clinical efficacy in an 
immunologically cold solid tumour with a high unmet need. Here, we highlight the 
key elements of the ImmTAC platform that make it ideally positioned to overcome 
the cold tumour microenvironment in an off-the-shelf format.

Copyright Â© 2019 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2019.06.001
PMID: 31207478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
