1. Cancers (Basel). 2019 Jul 11;11(7):971. doi: 10.3390/cancers11070971.

Tebentafusp: T Cell Redirection for the Treatment of Metastatic Uveal Melanoma.

Damato BE(1), Dukes J(2), Goodall H(2), Carvajal RD(3).

Author information:
(1)Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Oxford, John 
Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford OX3 9DU, UK. Bertil.Damato@NHS.net.
(2)Immunocore Limited, 101 Park Drive, Milton Park, Abingdon, Oxon OX14 4RY, UK.
(3)Department of Medicine, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, Herbert 
Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center, Herbert Irving Pavilion, 161 Fort Washington 
Avenue, HIP 9, New York, NY 10032, USA.

Metastatic disease from uveal melanoma occurs in almost 50% of patients 
suffering from this ocular tumour, with median survival from development of 
symptoms being around 1 year. In contrast to cutaneous melanoma, kinase 
inhibitors and immune checkpoint inhibitors are usually ineffective in patients 
with metastatic uveal melanoma. Tebentafusp is a novel form of immunotherapy 
based on the immune-mobilising monoclonal T cell receptor against cancer 
(ImmTAC) platform, which comprises a soluble T cell receptor that is fused to an 
anti-CD3 single-chain variable fragment. The T cell receptor domain of 
tebentafusp targets cells present a human leukocyte antigen-A*02:01 complexed 
with a peptide derived from the melanoma-associated antigen gp100, which is 
expressed strongly by melanoma cells, weakly by normal melanocytes and minimally 
by other tissues. The anti-CD3 domain recruits CD3+ T cells (and, indirectly, 
other immune cells), redirecting these to the melanoma cells. The most common 
adverse events with tebentafusp are manageable and usually transient. Early 
survival data in patients with metastatic uveal melanoma are promising when 
considered alongside historical data. Based on these encouraging results, a 
randomised study comparing tebentafusp to investigator's choice of therapy in 
metastatic uveal melanoma is ongoing.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers11070971
PMCID: PMC6679206
PMID: 31336704

Conflict of interest statement: Bertil Damato has received consulting fees from 
Immunocore. Rich Carvajal has received consulting fees and research funding to 
institution from Immunocore. Howard Goodall and Joseph Dukes are employees of 
Immunocore.
