1. Prog Retin Eye Res. 2022 Sep;90:101041. doi: 10.1016/j.preteyeres.2022.101041.
 Epub 2022 Jan 6.

Metastatic uveal melanoma: The final frontier.

Rantala ES(1), Hernberg MM(2), Piperno-Neumann S(3), Grossniklaus HE(4), Kivelä 
TT(5).

Author information:
(1)Ocular Oncology Service, Department of Ophthalmology, University of Helsinki 
and Helsinki University Hospital, Haartmaninkatu 4 C, PL 220, FI-00029, HUS, 
Helsinki, Finland. Electronic address: elina.rantala@helsinki.fi.
(2)Comprehensive Cancer Center, Department of Oncology, Helsinki University 
Hospital and University of Helsinki, Paciuksenkatu 3, PL 180, FI-00029, HUS, 
Helsinki, Finland. Electronic address: micaela.hernberg@hus.fi.
(3)Department of Medical Oncology, Institut Curie, 26, rue d'Ulm, 75005, Paris, 
France. Electronic address: sophie.piperno-neumann@curie.fr.
(4)Section of Ocular Oncology, Emory Eye Center, 1365 Clifton Road B, Atlanta, 
GA, 30322, USA. Electronic address: ophtheg@emory.edu.
(5)Ocular Oncology Service, Department of Ophthalmology, University of Helsinki 
and Helsinki University Hospital, Haartmaninkatu 4 C, PL 220, FI-00029, HUS, 
Helsinki, Finland. Electronic address: tero.kivela@helsinki.fi.

Treatment of primary intraocular uveal melanoma has developed considerably, its 
driver genes are largely unraveled, and the ways to assess its risk for 
metastases are very precise, being based on an international staging system and 
genetic data. Unfortunately, the risk of distant metastases, which emerge in 
approximately one half of all patients, is unaltered. Metastases are the leading 
single cause of death after uveal melanoma is diagnosed, yet no consensus exists 
regarding surveillance, staging, and treatment of disseminated disease, and 
survival has not improved until recently. The final frontier in conquering uveal 
melanoma lies in solving these issues to cure metastatic disease. Most studies 
on metastatic uveal melanoma are small, uncontrolled, retrospective, and do not 
report staging. Meta-analyses confirm a median overall survival of 10-13 months, 
and a cure rate that approaches nil, although survival exceeding 5 years is 
possible, estimated 2% either with first-line treatment or with best supportive 
care. Hepatic ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging as surveillance 
methods have a sensitivity of 95-100% and 83-100%, respectively, to detect 
metastases without radiation hazard according to prevailing evidence, but 
computed tomography is necessary for staging. No blood-based tests additional to 
liver function tests are generally accepted. Three validated staging systems 
predict, each in defined situations, overall survival after metastasis. Their 
essential components include measures of tumor burden, liver function, and 
performance status or metastasis free interval. Age and gender may additionally 
influence survival. Exceptional mutational events in metastases may make them 
susceptible to checkpoint inhibitors. In a large meta-analysis, surgical 
treatment was associated with 6 months longer median overall survival as 
compared to conventional chemotherapy and, recently, tebentafusp as first-line 
treatment at the first interim analysis of a randomized phase III trial likewise 
provided a 6 months longer median overall survival compared to investigator's 
choice, mostly pembrolizumab; these treatments currently apply to selected 
patients. Promoting dormancy of micrometastases, harmonizing surveillance 
protocols, promoting staging, identifying predictive factors, initiating 
controlled clinical trials, and standardizing reporting will be critical 
steppingstones in reaching the final frontier of curing metastatic uveal 
melanoma.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.preteyeres.2022.101041
PMID: 34999237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
