1. MAbs. 2022 Jan-Dec;14(1):2014296. doi: 10.1080/19420862.2021.2014296.

Antibodies to watch in 2022.

Kaplon H(1), Chenoweth A(2), Crescioli S(2), Reichert JM(3).

Author information:
(1)Translational Medicine Department, Institut de Recherches Internationales 
Servier, Suresnes, France.
(2)St. John's Institute of Dermatology, School of Basic & Medical Biosciences, 
King's College London, London, UK.
(3)The Antibody Society, Inc, Framingham, MA, USA.

In this 13th annual installment of the annual 'Antibodies to Watch' article 
series, we discuss key events in commercial antibody therapeutics development 
that occurred in 2021 and forecast events that might occur in 2022. Regulatory 
review of antibody therapeutics that target the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus proceeded 
at an unprecedented pace in 2021, resulting in both emergency use authorizations 
and full approvals for sotrovimab, regdanvimab, REGEN-COV2, as well as others, 
in numerous countries. As of November 1, a total of 11 antibody therapeutics had 
been granted first approvals in either the United States or European Union in 
2021 (evinacumab, dostarlimab loncastuximab tesirine, amivantamab, aducanumab, 
tralokinumab, anifrolumab, bimekizumab, tisotumab vedotin, regdanvimab, 
REGEN-COV2). The first global approvals of seven products, however, were granted 
elsewhere, including Japan (pabinafusp alfa), China (disitamab vedotin, 
penpulimab, zimberelimab), Australia (sotrovimab, REGEN-COV2), or the Republic 
of Korea (regdanvimab). Globally, at least 27 novel antibody therapeutics are 
undergoing review by regulatory agencies. First actions by the Food and Drug 
Administration on the biologics license applications for faricimab, sutimlimab, 
tebentafusp, relatlimab, sintilimab, ublituximab and tezepelumab are expected in 
the first quarter of 2022. Finally, our data show that, with antibodies for 
COVID-19 excluded, the late-stage commercial clinical pipeline of antibody 
therapeutics grew by over 30% in the past year. Of those in late-stage 
development, marketing applications for at least 22 may occur by the end of 
2022.

DOI: 10.1080/19420862.2021.2014296
PMCID: PMC8765076
PMID: 35030985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: HK is employed by a company that develops 
antibody therapeutics. JMR is employed by The Antibody Society, a non-profit 
trade association funded by corporate sponsors that develop antibody 
therapeutics or provide services to companies that develop antibody 
therapeutics, and she is Editor-in-Chief of mAbs, a biomedical journal focused 
on topics relevant to antibody therapeutics development. Data in this 
publication were collected from publicly available sources.
