1. Future Oncol. 2022 Apr;18(11):1303-1311. doi: 10.2217/fon-2021-1260. Epub 2022
 Feb 17.

Tebentafusp for the treatment of metastatic uveal melanoma.

Schank TE(1)(2), Hassel JC(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital Heidelberg, Heidelberg, 69120, 
Germany.
(2)National Center for Tumor Diseases, University Hospital Heidelberg, 
Heidelberg, 69120, Germany.

Uveal melanoma is a rare disease; nevertheless, it is the most common primary 
intraocular malignancy among adults. Approximately half of affected patients 
will suffer from metastatic disease, mostly to the liver. No standard-of-care 
treatment exists for these patients. Median progression-free survival and 
overall survival for all types of treatment, including checkpoint inhibitors, 
have remained poor. However, the most recent phase III study results for 
tebentafusp, a member of a new-in-class molecule, are raising hopes for stage IV 
uveal melanoma patients. In this review, we examine the current literature, 
focusing on the most recent trial results for this new reagent. We evaluate the 
latest clinical results for tebentafusp and aim to shed light on its 
immunological strategy.

Plain Language Summary: Uveal melanoma is a rare disease but is the most 
commonÂ tumor of the eye among adults. In approximately half patients who have 
uveal melanoma, it will spread to other parts of the body, mostly to the liver. 
There is no standard type of therapy for these patients. So far, all existing 
therapies have shown poor outcomes. However, the new treatment tebentafusp has 
shown encouraging results in a recent clinical study. In this review, we discuss 
the latest study results for tebentafusp and outline how it works as a treatment 
for uveal melanoma.

DOI: 10.2217/fon-2021-1260
PMID: 35172589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
