1. Transl Oncol. 2022 Jun;20:101408. doi: 10.1016/j.tranon.2022.101408. Epub 2022
 Mar 29.

Tebentafusp in first-line melanoma trials: An outperforming outlier.

Olivier T(1), Prasad V(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Geneva University Hospital, 4 Gabrielle-Perret-Gentil 
Street, Geneva 1205, Switzerland; Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, 
University of California San Francisco, 550 16th St, 2nd Fl, San Francisco, CA 
94158, USA. Electronic address: timothee.olivier@hcuge.ch.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of California San 
Francisco, 550 16th St, 2nd Fl, San Francisco, CA 94158, USA.

Uveal melanoma is distinct from other melanomas. In the advanced and metastatic 
stages, little to no improvement have been seen over time. Tebentafusp is a 
novel mechanism of action bispecific gp100 peptide-HLA-directed CD3 T-cell 
engager fusion protein ("-fusp"). Tebentafusp was granted full approval on 
January 25th 2022 in the setting of HLA-A*02:01-positive adult patients with 
unresectable or metastatic uveal melanoma. The approval was based on the overall 
survival advantage of tebentafusp over physician's choice therapy, in previously 
untreated uveal melanoma patients, based on the IMCgp100-202 trial. While we 
welcome positive results for this unmet need, three issues are raised by the 
trial. First, the control arm was restricted, precluding important options. 
Second, post-progression treatment was provided to a smaller fraction of 
patients than in real-life, which raises the question of whether overall 
survival was negatively impacted by limited care after the trial ended. Finally, 
the discrepancy between overall survival and progression-free survival benefit 
is an outlier in the context of previous melanoma trials. While it is clear that 
tebentafusp has an important role to play in this tumor type, the exact line is 
not yet well known. Confirmatory trials are needed for this compound.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tranon.2022.101408
PMCID: PMC8968051
PMID: 35364557

Conflict of interest statement: Vinay Prasad's Disclosures: Research funding: 
Arnold Ventures; Royalties: Johns Hopkins Press, Medscape; Honoraria: Grand 
Rounds/lectures from universities, medical centers, non-profits, and 
professional societies; Consulting: UnitedHealthcare; Speaking fees: Evicore; 
Other: Plenary Session podcast has Patreon backers. Timothée Olivier have no 
financial nor non-financial conflicts of interest to report.
