1. J Virus Erad. 2022 Aug 24;8(3):100082. doi: 10.1016/j.jve.2022.100082. 
eCollection 2022 Sep.

Combination strategies to durably suppress HIV-1: Soluble T cell receptors.

Wallace Z(1), Singh PK(1), Dorrell L(1).

Author information:
(1)Immunocore Ltd, UK.

Immunotherapeutic interventions to enhance natural HIV-specific CD8+ T cell 
responses, such as vaccination or adoptive T cell transfer, have been a major 
focus of HIV cure efforts. However, these approaches have not been effective in 
overcoming viral immune evasion mechanisms. Soluble T cell receptor (TCR) 
bispecifics are a new class of 'off-the-shelf' therapeutic designed to address 
these limitations. These biologics are built on the Immune mobilising monoclonal 
TCRs against X disease (ImmTAX) platform, which was pioneered in oncology and 
recently validated by the FDA's approval of tebentafusp for treatment of 
metastatic uveal melanoma. ImmTAV® are an application of this technology 
undergoing clinical development for the elimination of chronic viral infections. 
ImmTAV molecules comprise an affinity-enhanced virus-specific TCR fused to an 
anti-CD3 effector domain. Engineering of the TCR confers extraordinary 
specificity and affinity for cognate viral antigen and the anti-CD3 enables 
retargeting of non-exhausted cytolytic T cells, irrespective of their 
specificity. These features enable ImmTAV molecules to detect and kill infected 
cells, even when expressing very low levels of antigen, bypassing ineffective 
host immune responses. Furthermore, the modularity of the platform allows for 
engineering of TCRs that effectively target viral variants. In this review, we 
discuss the progress made in the development of ImmTAV molecules as therapeutics 
for functional cure of chronic hepatitis B and HIV, from concept to the clinic.

© 2022 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jve.2022.100082
PMCID: PMC9440443
PMID: 36065296

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare the following financial 
interests/personal relationships which may be considered as potential competing 
interests. ZW, PKS, and LD are employees of Immunocore Ltd.
