1. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2022 Nov 1;33(6):585-590. doi: 
10.1097/ICU.0000000000000905. Epub 2022 Sep 8.

Treatment of metastatic uveal melanoma in 2022: improved treatment regimens and 
improved prognosis.

Reichstein D(1), Brock A(1), Lietman C(2), McKean M(2).

Author information:
(1)Tennessee Retina, PC.
(2)Sarah Cannon Cancer Research Institute, Nashville, Tennessee, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Until recently, metastatic uveal melanoma was associated with 
essentially uniform fatality within months. However, recent developments in 
screening, improved understanding of the genetic underpinnings of metastatic 
disease, and pivotal medication approvals have improved the disease's rate of 
fatality.
RECENT FINDINGS: Routine implementation of genetic testing at the time of 
primary tumor treatment via gene expression profiling or chromosomal analysis 
has identified patients who are at high risk for metastatic disease. Enhanced 
screening with imaging directed at the liver and lungs has allowed for 
identification of early disease and lower tumor burden. Significant work on 
improved liver directed therapy along with systemic chemotherapy and 
immunotherapy has improved life expectancy. The first systemic immunotherapy 
specifically for metastatic uveal melanoma was approved this year. This 
medication, tebentafusp, is likely to improve life expectancy for all patients 
with metastatic melanoma assuming they have appropriate human leukocyte antigen 
(HLA) markers. Multiple clinical trials with novel immunotherapeutic agents are 
promising as well.
SUMMARY: The prognosis for patients with uveal melanoma is far better than ever 
before because of recent developments in the understanding and treatment of 
metastatic disease.

Copyright Â© 2022 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0000000000000905
PMID: 36094043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
