1. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2022 Oct;22(10):1017-1027. doi: 
10.1080/14737140.2022.2124971. Epub 2022 Sep 19.

Tebentafusp for the treatment of HLA-A*02:01-positive adult patients with 
unresectable or metastatic uveal melanoma.

Chen LN(1), Carvajal RD(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Medicine, Columbia University 
Medical Center, New York, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Metastatic uveal melanoma is associated with poor prognosis and 
few treatment options. Tebentafusp recently became the first FDA-approved agent 
for metastatic uveal melanoma.
AREAS COVERED: In this review, we describe the mechanism of action of 
tebentafusp as well as preclinical data showing high tumor specificity of the 
drug. We also review promising early-phase trials in which tebentafusp 
demonstrated activity in metastatic uveal melanoma patients with an acceptable 
toxicity profile that included cytokine-mediated, dermatologic-related, and 
liver-related adverse events. Finally, we summarize findings from a pivotal 
phase III randomized trial in which tebentafusp demonstrated significant 
improvement in overall survival in comparison with investigator choice therapy.
EXPERT OPINION: Tebentafusp has transformed the treatment paradigm for 
metastatic uveal melanoma and should be the preferred frontline agent for most 
HLA-A*0201 positive patients. However, patients with rapidly progressing disease 
or high tumor benefit may not derive the same benefit. Areas of future study 
should focus on its role in the adjuvant setting as well as strategies to 
improve the efficacy of tebentafusp in the metastatic setting.

DOI: 10.1080/14737140.2022.2124971
PMCID: PMC10184536
PMID: 36102132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interest RD Carvajal has received 
consultancy fees from; Alkermes, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Castle Biosciences, 
Eisai, Ideaya, Immunocore, InxMed, Iovance, Merck, Novartis, Oncosec, Pierre 
Fabre, PureTech Health, Regeneron, Sanofi Genzyme, Sorrento Therapeutics, 
Trisalus. RD Carvajal has served omn the clinical and scientific advisory boards 
of; Aura Biosciences, Chimeron, Rgenix and has received research funding to 
Columbia University from; Amgen, Astellis, AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, 
Corvus, Ideaya, Immunocore, Iovance, Merck, Mirati, Novartis, Pfizer, Plexxikon, 
Regeneron and Roche/Genentech. The authors have no other relevant affiliations 
or financial involvement with any organization or entity with a financial 
interest in or financial conflict with the subject matter or materials discussed 
in the manuscript apart from those disclosed.
