1. Clin Cancer Res. 2023 Feb 16;29(4):697-704. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-22-0028.

Redirecting Polyclonal T Cells against Cancer with Soluble T-Cell Receptors.

Berman DM(1), Bell JI(2).

Author information:
(1)Research and Development, Immunocore, Rockville, Maryland.
(2)Oxford University, Oxford, United Kingdom.

Cancer cells accumulate genetic mutations in coding proteins that may be 
presented by HLA as neoantigenic peptides (peptide HLA, pHLA). T cells scan for 
neoantigenic pHLA by the T-cell receptor (TCR):CD3 complex. This complex has the 
dual function of binding pHLA, by the TCR, and triggering T-cell activation by 
CD3. Checkpoint therapy activates exhausted T cells to kill cancer cells and 
generally work best against tumors with high neoantigen burden and in patients 
with neoantigenic-reactive T cells. TCR T-cell engagers (TCE) are a novel class 
of immunotherapy that bypasses these two requirements by redirecting polyclonal 
T cells, regardless of their native specificity, to kill a cancer cell 
independent of neoantigen burden. This is accomplished through deconstructing 
the membrane-bound TCR:CD3 complex into a soluble bispecific protein comprised 
of a targeting domain (TCR) and activating domain (usually anti-CD3 single-chain 
variable fragment). The pool of targets for TCR TCE is larger than for antibody 
therapeutics and includes >90% of human intra- or extracellular proteins. Most 
tumor-associated antigens for solid tumors are intracellular and accessible only 
by a TCR therapeutic. Tebentafusp, a TCR TCE directed to a peptide derived from 
the gp100 melanoma protein presented by HLA*A02:01, demonstrated a survival 
benefit in metastatic uveal melanoma (mUM). This survival benefit highlights the 
promise of TCR TCEs because mUM is a solid tumor with a very low neoantigen 
burden and has poor response to checkpoints and chemotherapy. Other TCR TCE 
programs are now in clinical studies for a broader range of tumors.

Â©2022 The Authors; Published by the American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-22-0028
PMCID: PMC9932579
PMID: 36255733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
