1. J Immunother Cancer. 2022 Nov;10(11):e005600. doi: 10.1136/jitc-2022-005600.

Ensuring equity in the era of HLA-restricted cancer therapeutics.

Smithy JW(1), Blouin A(2), Diamond LC(3)(4), Postow M(5)(4).

Author information:
(1)Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York, USA.
(2)Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, 
New York, New York, USA.
(3)Medicine, Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer 
Center, New York, New York, USA.
(4)Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, New York, USA.
(5)Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York, USA 
postowm@mskcc.org.

In January 2022, the US Food and Drug Administration granted regulatory approval 
to tebentafusp, a bispecific T cell receptor protein that targets melanoma 
antigen gp100 in the context of the human leucocyte antigen (HLA) A*0201 allele. 
This approval generated significant excitement, given the relative paucity of 
effective systemic therapies for advanced uveal melanoma. More broadly, 
tebentafusp represents the first T cell receptor agent to improve overall 
survival in any solid tumor.Although HLA-A*02:01 is the most common allele at 
this locus overall, its expression varies considerably among ethnic groups. It 
is most frequently expressed in Europeans, and less commonly in African 
Americans and people of Asian or Pacific Island ancestry. While uveal melanoma 
is most common in Caucasian populations, other HLA-restricted cancer 
therapeutics are being developed for indications with more diverse patient 
populations, such as cervical cancer.We advocate for proactive consideration of 
the populations eligible for each HLA-restricted therapeutic in development to 
ensure this emerging therapeutic class does not compound long-standing health 
disparities. As trials may focus on the most prevalent HLA subtypes, it will 
take the engagement of multiple stakeholders to ensure equitable access to 
patients of all ethnic backgrounds.

Â© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2022. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/jitc-2022-005600
PMCID: PMC9710357
PMID: 36442912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: JWS, AB and LCD report no 
conflicts of interest. MP reports consulting fees from BMS, Merck, Array 
BioPharma, Novartis, Incyte, NewLink Genetics, Aduro, Eisai, Pfizer; honoraria 
from BMS and Merck; institutional support from RGenix, Infinity, BMS, Merck, 
Array BioPharma, Novartis, AstraZeneca Funding sources.
