1. Cancers (Basel). 2023 Jan 13;15(2):493. doi: 10.3390/cancers15020493.

Hepatic Radiotherapy in Addition to Anti-PD-1 for the Treatment of Metastatic 
Uveal Melanoma Patients.

Rossi E(1), Cellini F(2)(3), Pagliara MM(4), Sammarco MG(4), Pedone RR(1), 
Lancellotta V(2), Tagliaferri L(2), Quirino M(1), Gambacorta MA(2)(3), Blasi 
MA(4), Tortora G(1)(5), Schinzari G(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology, Fondazione Policlinico Universitario Agostino Gemelli 
IRCCS, 00168 Rome, Italy.
(2)Radioterapia Oncologica ed Ematologia, Dipartimento di Diagnostica per 
Immagini, Fondazione Policlinico Universitario Agostino Gemelli IRCCS, 00168 
Rome, Italy.
(3)Radioterapia Oncologica ed Ematologia, Dipartimento Universitario Diagnostica 
per Immagini, Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, 00168 Rome, Italy.
(4)Ophtalmology, Fondazione Policlinico Universitario Agostino Gemelli IRCCS, 
00168 Rome, Italy.
(5)Medical Oncology, Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, 00168 Rome, Italy.

Uveal melanoma is the most common ocular tumor with frequent metastatic spread 
to the liver. Immune checkpoint inhibitors have demonstrated poor results in 
this disease. The addition of hepatic radiotherapy to anti-PD-1 could enhance 
the sensitivity to immunotherapy. In this study, patients treated with 
pembrolizumab and who have undergone hepatic radiotherapy have been 
retrospectively evaluated. Twenty-two patients have been considered. Six 
patients (27.3%) achieved a partial response and 3 (13.6%) a stable disease. 
Disease control rate was 40.9%. Thirteen patients (59.1%) had progression as 
best response. The median PFS was 4.8 months and 6 months PFS rate 45.4%. The 
median OS was 21.2 months, while 1 year OS rate was 72.7%. Longer survival was 
observed in patients who achieved a partial response on irradiated metastases 
(HR 0.23, 95% CI 0.06-0.83) or progressed after 6 months (HR 0.12-95% CI 
0.03-0.44). No radiotherapy-related or grade 3-4 adverse events were reported. 
This study demonstrates that the addition of hepatic radiotherapy to anti-PD-1 
treatment can be a valid option for the treatment of metastatic uveal melanoma, 
particularly for HLA A 02:01 negative patients. Prospective studies should be 
conducted to confirm these data.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers15020493
PMCID: PMC9857311
PMID: 36672442

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interest. E.R. had a role as consultant for MSD, Novartis, Pierre Fabre, 
Immunocore, Pfizer. G.T. had a role as consultant for BMS, MSD, Astra Zeneca, 
Servier, Merck Serono, Dompé. G.S. had a role as consultant for BMS.
