1. CPT Pharmacometrics Syst Pharmacol. 2023 Jan 29. doi: 10.1002/psp4.12928.
Online  ahead of print.

Mechanistically modeling peripheral cytokine dynamics following bispecific 
dosing in solid tumors.

Weddell J(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Pharmacology and Exploratory Development, Astellas Pharma Global 
Development Inc., Northbrook, Illinois, USA.

Bispecific antibodies exhibit proven clinical benefit, and many bispecifics are 
currently in clinical development for oncology. Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) 
is a common clinical adverse effect observed following CD3-based bispecific 
dosing. However, the pathophysiology of CRS is not fully understood, and no 
computational model mechanistically describing clinical cytokine dynamics 
following bispecific dosing in solid tumors exists. Here, a quantitative systems 
pharmacology (QSP) model describing peripheral clinical cytokine dynamics 
following bispecific dosing in solid tumors is presented. Using tebentafusp as a 
case study, a CD3-bispecific approved for uveal melanoma, the model successfully 
captures the dynamics of five cytokines. The QSP model was shown to predict 
observed phenomena, such as cytokine maximum concentration suppression using 
step-up dosing regimens and the importance of on-target off-tumor binding toward 
CRS and toxicity. Furthermore, the QSP model provides rationale for these 
biological phenomena based on dynamics of immune cell activation and 
desensitization in tumors and healthy tissues. Overall, the QSP model structure 
presented here serves as a basis to infer cytokine dynamics for other CD3-based 
bispecifics or tumor types by altering model parameters to capture the scenario 
of interest, supporting applications including dose selection, candidate 
nomination, and disease area selection.

Â© 2023 The Author. CPT: Pharmacometrics & Systems Pharmacology published by 
Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Society for Clinical Pharmacology 
and Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1002/psp4.12928
PMID: 36710368
