1. Drug Des Devel Ther. 2023 Feb 7;17:333-339. doi: 10.2147/DDDT.S368954. 
eCollection 2023.

Tebentafusp in the Treatment of Metastatic Uveal Melanoma: Patient Selection and 
Special Considerations.

Montazeri K(1), Pattanayak V(2), Sullivan RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(2)Department of Pathology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.

Uveal melanoma (UM) is a rare type of melanoma with distinct features from 
cutaneous melanoma, low response rates to immune checkpoint inhibition, and poor 
survival rates. Tebentafusp, a bispecific antibody engaging T cells with gp 100 
on HLA-A*02:01, was recently approved by the FDA as the first drug of its class 
and the first treatment approved by the FDA to treat UM. In this review, we 
summarize the preclinical and clinical data on tebentafusp for UM. We 
additionally discuss patient selection and the relevant challenges. For the 
literature search, PubMed search and relevant articles presented at 
international conferences were used.

© 2023 Montazeri et al.

DOI: 10.2147/DDDT.S368954
PMCID: PMC9921510
PMID: 36785760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Kamaneh Montazeri reports no conflicts of 
interest in this work. Ryan J Sullivan reports accepting fees for 
consulting/advisory board participation from BMS, Merck, Novartis, Eisai, 
Iovance, and Pfizer and has received grant funding from Merck. Vikram Pattanayak 
has a financial interest in SeQure, Dx, Inc., a company developing technologies 
for gene editing target profiling. Vikram Parranayak’s interests were reviewed 
and are managed by Massachusetts General Hospital and Mass General Brigham in 
accordance with their conflict-of-interest policies. He also reports royalty 
payments from Harvard University and Massachusetts General Hospital for the IP 
license in the gene editing space. The authors report no other conflicts of 
interest in this work.
