1. Front Oncol. 2023 May 3;13:1167791. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2023.1167791.
eCollection  2023.

Successful treatment of metastatic uveal melanoma with ipilimumab and nivolumab 
after severe progression under tebentafusp: a case report.

Reiter S(1), Schroeder C(2), Broche J(2), Sinnberg T(1), Bonzheim I(3), Süsskind 
D(4), Flatz L(1), Forschner A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital of Tübingen, Tübingen, 
Germany.
(2)Institute of Medical Genetics and Applied Genomics, University Hospital of 
Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany.
(3)Institute of Pathology and Neuropathology, University Hospital of Tübingen, 
Tübingen, Germany.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital of Tübingen, Tübingen, 
Germany.

Metastatic uveal melanoma (UM) is a rare form of melanoma differing from 
cutaneous melanoma by etiology, prognosis, driver mutations, pattern of 
metastases and poor response rate to immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI). 
Recently, a bispecific gp100 peptide-HLA-directed CD3 T cell engager, 
tebentafusp, has been approved for the treatment of HLA-A*02:01 metastatic or 
unresectable UM. While the treatment regime is complex with weekly 
administrations and close monitoring, the response rate is limited. Only a few 
data exist on combined ICI in UM after previous progression on tebentafusp. In 
this case report, we present a patient with metastatic UM who first suffered 
extensive progression under treatment with tebentafusp but in the following had 
an excellent response to combined ICI. We discuss possible interactions that 
could explain responsiveness to ICI after pretreatment with tebentafusp in 
advanced UM.

Copyright © 2023 Reiter, Schroeder, Broche, Sinnberg, Bonzheim, Süsskind, Flatz 
and Forschner.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2023.1167791
PMCID: PMC10189013
PMID: 37207136

Conflict of interest statement: AF served as consultant to Immunocore, Roche, 
Novartis, MSD, BMS, Pierre-Fabre; received travel support from Roche, Novartis, 
BMS, Pierre-Fabre, received speaker fees from Roche, Novartis, BMS, MSD and 
CeGaT. AF and CS report institutional research grants from BMS Stiftung 
Immunonkologie. IB received speaker fees from Novartis, Bayer, Pfizer, Takeda 
and AstraZeneca and honoraria for advisory board participation from BMS and 
Novartis. The remaining authors declare that the research was conducted in the 
absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as 
a potential conflict of interest.
