1. Curr Mol Med. 2023 Jun 22. doi: 10.2174/1566524023666230622151034. Online
ahead  of print.

Pharmacological profile of novel anti-cancer drugs approved by USFDA in 2022: A 
Review.

Sangwan K(1), Sharma V(2), Goyal PK(2).

Author information:
(1)Panipat Institute of Engineering and Technology Department of Pharmacy 
Panipat India.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Panipat Institute of Engineering and Technology 
(PIET), Samalkha, Panipat-132102, Haryana, India.

BACKGROUND: For any drug molecule, it is mandatory to pass the drug approval 
process of the concerned regulatory authority, before being marketed. The Food 
and Drug Administration (FDA), throughout the year, approves several new drugs 
for safety and efficacy. In addition to new drug approvals, FDA also works on 
improving access to generic drugs, aimed to lower the cost of drugs for patients 
and improve access to treatments. In the year 2022 twelve new drug therapies 
were approved for managing varying cancers.
METHOD: This manuscript is focused to describe the pharmacological aspects 
including therapeutic uses, mechanisms of actions, pharmacokinetics, adverse 
effects, doses, indication for special cases, contraindications, etc., of novel 
FDA-approved anticancer drug therapies in the year 2022.
RESULT: FDA has approved about 29% (11 out of 37) novel drug therapies for 
varying types of cancers such as lung cancer, breast cancer, prostate cancer, 
melanoma, leukemia, etc. The Center for Drug Evaluation and Research CDER has 
reported that 90% of these anticancer drugs (e.g. Adagrasib, Futibatinib, 
Mirvetuximabsoravtansine-gynx, Mosunetuzumab-axb, Nivolumab and relatlimab-rmbw, 
Olutasidenib, Pacritinib, Tebentafusp-tebn, Teclistamab-cqyv, and 
Tremelimumab-actl) as orphan drugs and recommended to treat rare or uncommon 
cancers such as non-small cell lung cancer, metastatic intrahepatic 
cholangio-carcinoma, epithelial ovarian cancer, follicular lymphoma, metastatic 
melanoma, metastatic uveal melanoma, etc. CDER has identified six anticancer 
drugs (e.g. Lutetium (177Lu)vipivotidetetraxetan, Mirvetuximabsoravtansine-gynx, 
Mosunetuzumab-axb, Nivolumab and relatlimab-rmbw, Tebentafusp-tebn, 
Teclistamab-cqyv) as first-in-class drugs i.e. drugs having different mechanisms 
of action from the already existing ones. The newly approved anticancer drugs 
shall provide more efficient treatment options for cancer patients. Three 
FDA-approved anticancer drugs in the year 2023 are also briefly described in the 
manuscript.
CONCLUSION: This manuscript, describing the pharmacological aspects of eleven 
anticancer novel drug therapies approved by the FDA, shall serve as a helpful 
document for cancer patients, concerned academicians, researchers, and 
clinicians, especially oncologists.

CopyrightÂ© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1566524023666230622151034
PMID: 37350009
