1. Eur J Cancer. 2023 Sep;191:112986. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2023.112986. Epub 2023 
Jul 11.

Practical guidelines for the management of adverse events of the T cell engager 
bispecific tebentafusp.

Hassel JC(1), Berking C(2), Forschner A(3), Gebhardt C(4), Heinzerling L(5), 
Meier F(6), Ochsenreither S(7), Siveke J(8), Hauschild A(9), Schadendorf D(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, National Center for Tumor Diseases, University 
Hospital Heidelberg, Im Neuenheimer Feld 460, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany. 
Electronic address: Jessica.Hassel@med.uni-heidelberg.de.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Uniklinikum Erlangen, Friedrich-Alexander 
University Erlangen-Nürnberg, Comprehensive Cancer Center Erlangen-EMN, Ulmenweg 
18, 91054 Erlangen, Germany.
(3)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital Tuebingen, Liebermeisterstr. 
25, 72076 Tuebingen, Germany.
(4)Department of Dermatology and Venereology, Skin Cancer Center, University 
Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf (UKE), Martinistr. 52, 20246 Hamburg, Germany.
(5)Department of Dermatology and Allergy, University Hospital, LMU Munich, 
Frauenlobstr. 9-11, 80337 Munich, Germany; Department of Dermatology, University 
Hospital Erlangen, 91054 Erlangen, Germany.
(6)Skin Cancer Center at the University Cancer Centre Dresden and National 
Center for Tumor Diseases and Department of Dermatology, University Hospital 
Carl Gustav Carus, TU Dresden, Fetscherstr. 74, 01307 Dresden, Germany.
(7)Department of Hematology, Oncology and Tumor Immunology, Charité Campus 
Benjamin Franklin, Hindenburgdamm 30, 12203 Berlin, Germany; 
Charité-Comprehensive Cancer Center, Charitéplatz 1, 10117 Berlin, Germany.
(8)Bridge Institute of Experimental Tumor Therapy, West German Cancer Center, 
University Medicine Essen, Hufelandstr. 55, 45147 Essen, Germany; Division of 
Solid Tumor Translational Oncology, German Cancer Consortium (DKTK, partner site 
Essen) and German Cancer Research Center, DKFZ, Im Neuenheimer Feld 280, 69120 
Heidelberg, Germany.
(9)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital Schleswig-Holstein (UKSH), 
Arnold-Heller-Str. 3, 24105 Kiel, Germany.
(10)Department of Dermatology, Comprehensive Cancer Center (Westdeutsches 
Tumorzentrum), German Cancer Consortium (DKTK, partner site Essen) and 
University Hospital Essen, Hufelandstr. 55, 45122 Essen, Germany.

Tebentafusp is a new T cell receptor bispecific fusion protein and the first 
approved treatment option for human leucocyte antigen-A*02:01 (HLA-A*02:01) 
metastatic uveal melanoma, with a proven benefit in overall survival versus the 
investigator's choice. As a first-in-class therapeutic option, this Immune 
mobilising monoclonal T cell receptor Against Cancer (ImmTAC) is associated with 
a new adverse event (AE) profile. Based on clinical experience, a national 
expert group discussed recommendations for tebentafusp treatment, focusing on AE 
management. Further topics included prerequisites for initiating tebentafusp 
treatment, appropriate treatment setting, and patient selection criteria. To 
provide guidance for treating physicians, the resulting recommendations are 
summarised including a model standard operating procedure for AE management. 
Patients in good clinical condition and with a low tumour burden are good 
candidates for tebentafusp treatment, particularly if treated as early as 
possible after the diagnosis of metastatic disease. The safety profile of 
tebentafusp is manageable and includes two major pathologies: cytokine release 
syndrome (CRS) and skin-related events. Postdose monitoring should thus focus on 
pyrexia and hypotension as the first symptoms of cytokine release. To minimise 
the risk of hypotension associated with CRS, patients should receive 
intravenous fluids before starting treatment. The monitoring of liver values is 
crucial, as patients may experience an increase in transaminases, which can even 
manifest as tumour lysis syndrome.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2023.112986
PMID: 37595494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Carola Berking reports honoraria 
for talks from Bristol-Myers Squibb, MSD, Novartis, and Sanofi and for advisory 
boards from Bristol-Myers Squibb, Immunocore, InflaRx, MSD, Novartis, Pierre 
Fabre, Regeneron, and Sanofi. Andrea Forschner reports honoraria for talks from 
Bristol-Myers Squibb, CeGaT, MSD, Novartis, and Roche and for advisory boards 
from Bristol-Myers Squibb, Immunocore, MSD, Novartis, Pierre Fabre, and Roche; 
she reports travel expenses from Bristol-Myers Squibb, Novartis, Pierre Fabre, 
and Roche. Christoffer Gebhardt reports honoraria for talks from Almirall, 
Bristol-Myers Squibb, Immunocore, Janssen, MSD, Novartis, Pierre Fabre, Sanofi, 
SUN Pharma and for advisory boards from Bristol-Myers Squibb, Immunocore, MSD, 
Novartis, Pierre Fabre, Sanofi, SUN Pharma; he received travel expenses from 
Bristol-Myers Squibb and SUN Pharma. Founder Dermagnostix and Dermagnostix R&D. 
Jessica Hassel reports honoraria for talks from Amgen, Bristol-Myers Squibb, 
GSK, Immunocore, MSD, Novartis, Pierre Fabre, Sanofi, SUN Pharma and for 
advisory boards from GSK, MSD, Pierre Fabre, SUN Pharma, Onkowissen; she reports 
travel expenses from Bristol-Myers Squibb, Iovance, SUN Pharma. Axel Hauschild 
reports speaker’s honoraria from Amgen, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eisai, Kyowa 
Kirin, MerckPfizer, MSD/Merck, Novartis Pharma, Pierre Fabre, Regeneron, Roche, 
Sanofi-Genzyme; he reports advisory boards from Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eisai, 
Immunocore, MerckPfizer, MSD/Merck, Novartis Pharma, Regeneron, Replimune, 
Pierre Fabre, Roche, Sanofi-Genzyme, and consultancy for Dermagnostix, Eisai, 
Highlight Therapeutics, Incyte, IO Biotech, MSD/Merck, NeraCare, Novartis 
Pharma, Philogen, Pierre Fabre, Regeneron, Replimune, Roche, Sanofi-Genzyme, 
Seagen; he reports clinical trial support (grant to institution) from Amgen, 
Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eisai, Huya Biosciences, MerckPfizer, MSD/Merck, NeraCare, 
Novartis Pharma, Philogen, Pierre Fabre, Regeneron, Replimune, Roche, 
Sanofi-Genzyme. Lucie Heinzerling reports speakers and advisory board honoraria 
from Amgen, Bristol-Myers Squibb, CureVac AG, Kyowa Kirin, Merck Sharp & Dohme 
GmbH, Novartis Pharma GmbH, Pierre Fabre Pharma GmbH, Roche, Sanofi-Aventis 
Deutschland GmbH, SUN Pharmaceuticals Germany GmbH, Therakos. Friedegund Meier 
reports travel support or/and speaker’s fees or/and advisor’s honoraria from 
Bristol-Myers Squibb, Immunocore, MSD, Novartis, Roche, Pierre Fabre, Sanofi; 
she reports research funding from Novartis and Roche. Sebastian Ochsenreither 
reports honoraria for talks from Bristol-Myers Squibb, Janssen, Merck, MSD and 
for advise from AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Genmab, Immunocore, Janssen, 
Merck, MSD, Pfizer. Dirk Schadendorf reports consulting, DMSB/advisory role and 
honoraria from Immunocore; he reports consulting/advisory role; honoraria; 
travel, accommodations, expenses from Roche/Genentech and consulting/advisory 
role; honoraria; speakers bureau; travel, accommodations, expenses; research 
funding from Amgen, Bristol-Myers Squibb, MSD, Novartis; he reports 
consulting/advisory role; speakers bureau; honoraria from Incyte, Pierre Fabre 
and consulting/advisory role; honoraria from 4SC, Replimune; he reports 
consulting/advisory role; honoraria; travel, accommodations, expenses from Merck 
Serono and travel, accommodations, expenses from Merck; he reports honoraria 
from Array BioPharma, Philogen, Pfizer, Regeneron, Roche and consulting/advisory 
role for Nektar; he reports consulting/speaker role for Sunpharma and reports 
consulting for Daiichi Sanycho, Haystack, InFlarX, Innovent, Neracare, PamGene, 
Seagen; he reports adboards for Novigenix, OncoSec, SUN Pharma, Ultimovacs and 
DSMB/consulting for AstraZeneca and consulting/adboard for Immatics; he reports 
consulting and advisory roles; travel support; payments to institution for study 
conduct from Sanofi. Jens Siveke reports consulting, advisory role, and 
honoraria for talks from AstraZeneca, Bayer, Boehringer-Ingelheim, Bristol-Myers 
Squibb, Celgene, Falk Foundation, Immunocore, MCI Deutschland GmbH, MSD Sharp & 
Dohme GmbH, Novartis, Roche, SERVIER; he reports institutional trial support 
from AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Roche/Genentech and research funding 
from Abalos Therapeutics, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eisbach Bio, Roche/Genentech; he 
reports travel, accommodations, expenses from SERVIER and leadership and stock 
and other ownership interests from Pharma15.
