1. Melanoma Res. 2023 Dec 1;33(6):525-531. doi: 10.1097/CMR.0000000000000919.
Epub  2023 Aug 25.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of an orphan drug tebentafusp in patients with 
metastatic uveal melanoma and a call for value-based pricing.

Luo S(1)(2), Xie C(1)(2), Lin N(1)(2), Lin D(1)(2), Gu D(3), Lin S(1)(2), Huang 
X(1)(2), Xu X(1)(2), Weng X(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, the First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical 
University.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, National Regional Medical Center, Binhai Campus of 
the First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
(3)Institute for Health & Aging, University of California, San Francisco, 
California, USA.

The normative regimens recommendations for treating metastatic uveal melanoma 
(mUM) are absent in the US. Recently, a phase III randomized clinical trial 
revealed that tebentafusp yielded a conspicuously longer overall survival than 
the control group. Based on the prominent efficacy, this study aimed to assess 
whether tebentafusp is cost-effective compared to the control group in patients 
with untreated mUM. A three-state partitioned survival model was developed to 
assess the costs, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) from the perspective of US payers. Scenario 
analyses and sensitivity analyses were conducted to explore the conclusion 
uncertainty. Compared with control group, tebentafusp therapy yielded an 
additional 0.47 QALYs (1.19 vs. 0.72 QALYs) and an incremental cost of $444 280 
($633 822 vs. $189 542). The resultant ICER of $953 230/QALY far outweighed the 
willingness-to-pay threshold of $200 000/QALY. The ICER was always more than 
$750 000/QALY in all the univariable and probabilistic sensitivity analyses. 
Scenario analyses indicated that reducing the unit price of tebentafusp to 
$33.768/µg was associated with a favorable result of tebentafusp being 
cost-effective. For treatment-naive patients with mUM, the cost of tebentafusp 
therapy was not worth the improvement in survival benefits at the current price 
compared to the investigator's choice of therapy. The cost-effectiveness of 
tebentafusp could be promoted using value-based pricing.

Copyright © 2023 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/CMR.0000000000000919
PMID: 37650713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
