1. Immunotherapy. 2023 Nov;15(16):1363-1368. doi: 10.2217/imt-2023-0093. Epub
2023  Sep 4.

Tumor lysis syndrome induced by tebentafusp.

Ruf T(1), Leonhardt A(1), Anz D(2), Kunz WG(3), Röhrle N(2), Foerster P(4), 
Tomsitz D(1), French LE(1)(5), Seegräber M(1), Heinzerling L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology & Allergy, University Hospital, LMU Munich, Munich, 
80337, Germany.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital, LMU Munich, Munich, 
80336, Germany.
(3)Department of Radiology, University Hospital, LMU Munich, Munich, 80336, 
Germany.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital, LMU Munich, Munich, 80336, 
Germany.
(5)Dr. Philip Frost Department of Dermatology & Cutaneous Surgery, University of 
Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, FL 33125, USA.

Tebentafusp, a bispecific T-cell receptor fusion protein directed against gp100 
and CD3, can improve survival in patients with metastatic uveal melanoma and was 
recently approved for the treatment of HLA-A*02:01-positive uveal melanoma 
patients. Since tebentafusp often induces cytokine-release syndrome, doses must 
be escalated and patients monitored as inpatients after the first infusions. The 
occurrence of tumor lysis syndrome, a potentially life-threatening condition, 
after administration of a single dose of tebentafusp, is reported here. With 
adequate therapy, including the application of rasburicase, the patient made a 
full recovery. It is important to raise awareness of the adverse event profile 
of this new therapeutic approach among healthcare professionals to promptly 
recognize and treat side effects.

Plain Language Summary: Tebentafusp is a new treatment for a type of eye cancer 
called uveal melanoma. It helps the body's defense system fight against cancer 
cells and has shown promise in helping patients live longer. However, not all 
patients with uveal melanoma can use this treatment. Only those who have a 
specific gene marker called HLA-A*02:01-positive can benefit from it. Like any 
new treatment, tebentafusp may have some side effects. One of them is called 
cytokine-release syndrome, which can cause symptoms like rash, fever and 
flu-like feelings. Usually, this side effect is not serious and can be treated 
well. There was a rare but serious case where one patient had a bad reaction 
after getting only one dose of tebentafusp. This reaction is called tumor lysis 
syndrome, which happens when cancer cells break down quickly and release harmful 
substances into the blood. This can be life-threatening. Thankfully, the patient 
received the right treatment and got better. This information is shared 
here with doctors and patients, so they know about possible side effects and can 
use tebentafusp safely.

DOI: 10.2217/imt-2023-0093
PMID: 37661909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
