1. Clin Exp Immunol. 2023 Nov 1:uxad120. doi: 10.1093/cei/uxad120. Online ahead
of  print.

Tuning the potency and selectivity of ImmTAC molecules by affinity modulation.

Robertson IB(1), Mulvaney R(1), Dieckmann N(1), Vantellini A(1), Canestraro 
M(1), Amicarella F(1), O'Dwyer R(1), Cole DK(1), Harper S(1), Dushek O(2), Kirk 
P(1).

Author information:
(1)Immunocore Limited, 92 Park Drive, Milton Park, Abingdon, Oxon, OX14 4RY, UK.
(2)Sir William Dunn School of Pathology, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, 
Oxford, OX1 3RE, UK.

T cell engaging bispecifics have great clinical potential for the treatment of 
cancer and infectious diseases. The binding affinity and kinetics of a 
bispecific molecule for both target and T cell CD3 have substantial effects on 
potency and specificity, but the rules governing these relationships are not 
fully understood. Using ImmTAC (Immune mobilizing monoclonal TCRs Against 
Cancer) molecules as a model, we explored the impact of altering affinity for 
target and CD3 on the potency and specificity of the re-directed T cell 
response. This class of bispecifics, exemplified by tebentafusp which has 
recently shown survival benefit in a randomized phase 3 clinical trial1, bind 
specific target peptides presented by human leukocyte antigen (HLA) on the cell 
surface via an affinity-enhanced T cell receptor and can redirect T cell 
activation with an anti-CD3 effector moiety. The data reveal that combining a 
strong affinity TCR with an intermediate affinity anti-CD3 results in optimal T 
cell activation, while strong affinity of both targeting and effector domains 
significantly reduces maximum cytokine release. Moreover, by optimising the 
affinity of both parts of the molecule, it is possible to improve the 
selectivity. These results could be effectively modelled based on kinetic 
proof-reading with limited signalling. This model explained the experimental 
observation that strong binding at both ends of the molecules leads to reduced 
activity, through very stable target-bispecific-effector complexes leading to 
CD3 entering a non-signalling dark-state. These findings have important 
implications for the design of anti-CD3 based bispecifics with optimal 
biophysical parameters for both activity and specificity.

Â© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
British Society for Immunology.

DOI: 10.1093/cei/uxad120
PMID: 37930865
